Title
Demand effects in survey experiments: An empirical assessment (Study 3)


Developed by
MW


Checked by
NAC


Details
Not students
Payment
Online

Non-control demand levels
~15_p: You will more strongly support military action against a country when it is described as non-democratic.

Fake demand scenario
~15_n: You will more strongly support military action against a country when it is described as democratic.
~15_z: Whether or not a country is described as democratic will not impact the extent to which you strongly support military action against it.
~15_f: You will more closely follow news items from democratic countries.

Procedure
Described scenarios, military action or welfare


DVs
Military action
Welfare policy


Vignette
#15_p_nin: Positive - military
Imagine that you are working a free-lance job where you are paid to complete an online study.
The researcher informs you that they believe you will more strongly support military action against a country when it is described as non-democratic (vs. democratic).
You are then presented with a hypothetical situation describing a country that is a threat to the U.S., including information about whether they are democratic or non-democratic.The researchers then ask you the extent to which you support military action against this country.
#15_p_yin: Incentive - military
Imagine that you are working a free-lance job where you are paid to complete an online study.
The researcher informs you that they believe you will more strongly support military action against a country when it is described as non-democratic (vs. democratic). They also inform you that you will receive a $0.25 bonus payment if your response is consistent with their hypothesis.
You are then presented with a hypothetical situation describing a country that is a threat to the U.S., including information about whether they are democratic or non-democratic. The researchers then ask you the extent to which you support military action against this country.