Title
Effects of experimental context, demand characteristics, and situational cues: New data


Developed by
MW


Checked by
NAC


Details
Students
No payment
Not online


Non-control demand levels
~22_p: It is not unusual to experience visual imagery, fantasies, difficulties in concentration, and hallucinations while in the sensory deprivation chamber.


Fake demand scenario
~22_n: While in sensory deprivation chambers, people are less likely to experience disruptions in visual imagery and concentration.
~22_z:  It is extremley uncommon to experience visual imagery, fantasies, difficulties in concentration, and hallucinations while in the sensory deprivation chamber.
~22_f: People who enter sensory deprivation chambers do not typically report any unusual experiences.

Procedure
Subject left in a sensory-deprivation chamber


DVs
Simple forms score 
Spiral after-effect score (duration of after-effect): 
Self-reported sensory-deprivation symptoms


Vignette
#22_p_sim: Positive - simple
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study for extra course credit.
You are told that you will be placed in a sensory deprivation chamber. The researcher then informs you that it is not unusual to experience fantasies, visual imagery, difficulty concentrating, special/unusual feelings, and feelings of disorientation while in the sensory deprivation chamber.
You are put into a sensory deprivation chamber for four hours. Afterwards, you are shown a series of simple shapes (e.g., a circle) from far away and asked to report how many irregularities you detect.
#22_p_spi: Positive - spiral
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study for extra course credit.
You are told that you will be placed in a sensory deprivation chamber. The researcher then informs you that it is not unusual to experience fantasies, visual imagery, difficulty concentrating, special/unusual feelings, and feelings of disorientation while in the sensory deprivation chamber.
You are put into a sensory deprivation chamber for four hours. Afterwards, you stare at a spinning spiral and then shift your vision to a stationary spiral. This creates the illusion that the stationary spiral is spinning, and you are asked to report how long this illusion persists.
#22_p_sen: Positive - sensory-deprivation
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study for extra course credit.
You are told that you will be placed in a sensory deprivation chamber. The researcher then informs you that it is not unusual to experience fantasies, visual imagery, difficulty concentrating, special/unusual feelings, and feelings of disorientation while in the sensory deprivation chamber.
You are put into a sensory deprivation chamber for four hours. Afterwards, you are asked to report whether you experienced each of the following: perceptual aberrations, intellectual dullness, unpleasantness, boredom, anxiety fears, spatial disorientation, restlessness, and irritability.