Title
Effect of the destructive disagreement belief on satisfaction with one's closest friend


Developed by
MW


Checked by
NAC


Details
Students
No payment


Non-control demand levels
~09_p: Reading and believing the set of statements created by the researcher will make you feel better about your relationship with your friend.
~09_n: Reading and believing the set of statements created by the researcher will make you feel worse about your relationship with your friend.

Fake demand scenario
~09_z: Reading and believing the set of statements created by the researcher will not impact how you feel about your relationship with your friend.
~09_f: Reading and believing the set of statements created by the researcher will inspire you to make more friends.

Procedure
Assess relationship satisfaction with current main romantic relationship or their current closest friend. Read statements and assess again


DVs
Relationship satisfaction


Vignette
#09_p_sat: Positive - satisfaction
Imagine that you are a university student completing a study as a volunteer or for extra credit.
The researcher asks you to imagine having a serious disagreement about a close friend. You then read several statements that are similar to the following: “Disagreeing means that our relationship is not good.” The researcher then tells you they expect that saying and believing these statements will make you feel better about your relationship.
After reading the statements, you are asked to report how satisfied you are with your relationship with the close friend.
#09_n_sat: Negative - satisfaction
Imagine that you are a university student completing a study as a volunteer or for extra credit.
The researcher asks you to imagine having a serious disagreement about a close friend. You then read several statements that are similar to the following: “Disagreeing does not mean that our relationship is not good.” The researcher then tells you they expect that saying and believing these statements will make you feel worse about your relationship.
After reading the statements, you are asked to report how satisfied you are with your relationship with the close friend.