Title
Fact or artifact? Demand characteristics and participants’ beliefs can moderate, but do not fully account for, the effects of facial feedback on emotional experience


Developed by
NAC


Checked by
MW


Details
Student
No payment
Not online


Non-control demand levels
~11_p: Posing happy expressions will increase feelings of happiness, and posing angry expressions will increase feelings of anger.
~11_z: Posing happy expressions will not increase feelings of happiness, and posing angry expressions will not increase feelings of anger

Fake demand scenario
~11_f: Posing happy expressions will increase hunger, and posing angry expressions will increase thirst.

Procedure
Pose happy, angry, neutral expressions for 5 seconds. After each facial expression pose, self-report happiness/anger


DVs
Self-reported happiness
Self-reported anger


Vignette
#11_p_hap: Positive - happiness
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study for course credit.
The researcher informs you that they expect posing happy expressions to increase feelings of happiness.
You pose happy, neutral, and angry expressions and then self-report how happy you feel.
#11_z_hap: Nil - happiness
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study for course credit.
The researcher informs you that they expect posing happy expressions to have no effect on your feelings of happiness.
You pose happy, neutral, and angry expressions and then self-report how happy you feel.
#11_p_ang: Positive - anger
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study for course credit.
The researcher informs you that they expect posing angry expressions to increase feelings of anger.
You pose happy, neutral, and angry expressions and then self-report how angry you feel.
#11_z_ang: Nil - anger
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study for course credit.
The researcher informs you that they expect posing angry expressions to have no effect on your feelings of anger.
You pose happy, neutral, and angry expressions and then self-report how angry you feel.