Title
Demand effects in survey experiments: An empirical assessment (Study 2)


Developed by
MW


Checked by
NAC


Details
Not students
Payment
Online


Non-control demand levels
Positive: exhibit bias (towards white/same partisan)
Negative: exhibit bias (against white/same partisan)


Procedure
Resume or news


DVs
Resume bias
News bias


Vignette
#14_p_res: Positive - resume
Imagine that you are working a free-lance job where you are paid to complete an online study.
The researcher tells you to imagine yourself as an HR officer tasked with sorting through resumes to determine which applicants should receive an interview for an entry-level sales position. They inform you that they anticipate you will be more likely to choose candidates with stereotypical White American names to receive an interview.
You are then presented with a resume, which contains either a stereotypically White American or African American name. You are then asked to indicate how willing you are to call the candidate for an interview.
#14_n_res: Negative - resume
Imagine that you are working a free-lance job where you are paid to complete an online study.
The researcher tells you to imagine yourself as an HR officer tasked with sorting through resumes to determine which applicants should receive an interview for an entry-level sales position. They inform you that they anticipate you will be more likely to choose candidates with stereotypical African American names to receive an interview.
You are then presented with a resume, which contains either a stereotypically White American or African American name. You are then asked to indicate how willing you are to call the candidate for an interview.
#14_p_new: Positive - news
Imagine that you are working a free-lance job where you are paid to complete an online study.
The researcher tells you you will be indicating which type of news items you most prefer to read. They inform you that they anticipate you will be more likely to choose an article that favors your preferred political party because people tend to seek out information that is consistent with their personal views.
You are presented with a series of article headlines, each which is tagged as coming from either a pro-Republican, pro-Democrat, or non-partisan news source. For each series of headlines, you are asked to indicate which article you prefer.
#14_n_new: Negative - news
Imagine that you are working a free-lance job where you are paid to complete an online study.
The researcher tells you you will be indicating which type of news items you most prefer to read. They inform you that they anticipate you will be more likely to choose an article that goes against your preferred political party because people often strive to hear diverse points of view.
You are presented with a series of article headlines, each which is tagged as coming from either a pro-Republican, pro-Democrat, or non-partisan news source. For each series of headlines, you are asked to indicate which article you prefer.