Title
A demonstration of nonlinear demand characteristics in the 'Mozart Effect' experimental paradigm (Study 1)


Developed by
MW


Checked by
NAC


Details
Student
No Payment
Not online


Non-control demand levels
~34_p: Listening to Mozart will improve test-taking capabilities.
~34_n: Listening to Mozart will impair test-taking capabilities.

Fake demand scenario
~34_f: Listening to Mozart will cause you to experience a complex blend of emotions.


Procedure
Play Mozart music


DVs
DAT Spatial test score: performance on a space relations subtest
DAT Verbal test score: performance on a verbal reasoning subtest


Vignette
#34_p_spa: Positive - spatial
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study as a volunteer or for course credit.
The researcher informs you that they are interested in the beneficial effects of listening to Mozart on test-taking capabilities.
While Mozart music is played, you are then asked to complete a test measuring spatial relations, wherein you see unfolding shapes and guess the corresponding folded pattern.
#34_p_ver: Positive - verbal
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study as a volunteer or for course credit.
The researcher informs you that they are interested in the beneficial effects of listening to Mozart on test-taking capabilities.
While Mozart music is played, you are then asked to complete a test measuring verbal reasoning, wherein you are asked to fill in the first and last word of example sentences.
#34_n_spa: Negative - spatial
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study as a volunteer or for course credit.
The researcher informs you that they are interested in the non-beneficial effects of listening to Mozart on test-taking capabilities.
While Mozart music is played, you are then asked to complete a test measuring spatial relations, wherein you see unfolding shapes and guess the corresponding folded pattern.
#34_n_ver: Negative - verbal
Imagine that you are a university student completing an in-person study as a volunteer or for course credit.
The researcher informs you that they are interested in the non-beneficial effects of listening to Mozart on test-taking capabilities.
While Mozart music is played, you are then asked to complete a test measuring verbal reasoning, wherein you are asked to fill in the first and last word of example sentences.